src/content/docs/navigation/sngnn2d.mdx, before:

---
title: "Generation of human-aware navigation maps using graph neural networks"
description: "This projects consitis of the generation of disruption maps for Human-Aware Navigation (HAN) with robots using graph neural networks. This maps can be used for real-time HAN as demonstrated in the experiments."
cover: "@/images/projects/sngnn2d/results.png"
coverAlt: "Results of the maps gneerated from a SocNav1 scenario with SNGNN2D."
lastUpdated: 2021-12-06
sidebar:
  order: 2
  label: "SNGNN2D: Social Navigation with Graph Neural Networks 2D"
---

import Header from "@/components/starlight/ProjectHeader.astro";
import { Image } from "astro:assets";

<Header
	contributors={["Daniel Rodriguez-Criado", "Pilar Bachiller-Burgos", "Luis J. Manso"]}
	githubUrl="https://github.com/gnns4hri/sngnn2d"
	paperUrl="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.05180.pdf"
/>

This work builds on top of the project in [SNGNN](/navigation/sngnn) and exetends it to generate 2D disruption maps for Human-Aware Navigation (HAN) using graph neural networks.
While _SNGNN_ could only generate a single score for scneario, this new model (_SNGNN2D_) can yield a entire disruption map of the space around the robot that can be use for HAN.
It is worth noting that _SNGNN_ is also campable of generating these 2D maps by querying the model for every possible position of the robot in the scneario, generating 1 pixel value of the final map per position.
However, this process is too slow due to the large number of queries required to generate the full map.
Generating a map using this approach takes approximatelly **37.55** seconds while the SNGNN2D model can generate the full map in just **0.045** seconds using the same hardware.

import coverVideo from "@/images/projects/sngnn2d/cover_video.webm";

<video controls width="100%">
	<source src={coverVideo} type="video/webm" />
</video>

Thus the main contributions of this work are two-fold:

<ol style="list-style-type: none;">
	<li>**a.)** A technique to bootstrap two-dimensional datasets from one dimensional Datasets. </li>
	<li>**b.)** SNGNN-2D, an architecture that combines Graph Neural Networks (GNN) and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to generate two dimensional cost maps based on the robot's knowledge. </li>
</ol>

After training, the resulting ML architecture is able to efficiently generate cost maps that can be used as a cost function for Human-Aware Navigation.

The experiments presented in the [published article](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.05180.pdf) provide the accuracy of the model, time efficiency and statistical information of the trajectories used by the robot when using SNGNN-2D and a reference Gaussian Mixture Model-based (GMM) algorithm. The software to bootstrap the two-dimensional dataset and SNGNN-2D has been released as [open-source in a public repository](https://github.com/gnns4hri/sngnn2d), with all the data required to replicate the experiments.

## Dataset bootstrapping

The acquisition of two-dimensional cost or _disruption_ maps to create datasets for learning purposes generates a number of challenges.
First, asking people contributing to the datasets to provide a cost map instead of a single score per scenario would be more time-consuming.
Another factor to consider is the precision of the answer is being dependent on the subjects' capability to represent their preferences graphically.
Their inclination and motivation to stay engaged in the task would also be a challenge.

import bootstrappingImg from "@/images/projects/sngnn2d/bootstrapping.png";

<Image class="centered" src={bootstrappingImg} alt="Visualization of the dataset bootstrapping process" />
<p class="caption">**Fig 1.** _The process used to bootstrap the two-dimensional dataset. The expected 2D outputs are generated performing multiple queries to SNGNN, shifting the scenario around the robot._</p>

From an ML perspective, when factoring in an approximately equal time commitment and effort when generating answers, providing a single scalar for each scenario would yield answers for a higher number of scenarios.
This would, in turn, generate a higher variability in the input scenarios that would make the model less prone to overfitting.

A dataset containing scalars as output data cannot directly be used to train a model which provides a two-dimensional output, so the approach followed in this case is to use a model which provides single value estimations ([SNGNN](/navigation/sngnn)) and sample its output shifting the robot's position, bootstrapping this way a two-dimensional dataset.
The process of sampling is depicted in *Fig. 1* and in more detail in the cover video.
For each scenario in the bootstrapped dataset a matrix of 73 x 73 samples is generated.
A total of 37,131 scenarios were randomly generated following the same strategy of [SocNav1](/navigation/datasets/socnav1).
The dataset split for training, development and test is of 31,191, 2,970 and 2,970 scenarios, respectively.


## Graphs creation

Considering that the input data is not presented in the form of a graph, its conversion to a graph-like structure is one of the most relevant steps if GNNs are to be used.
This process follows the same steps as ([SNGNN](/navigation/sngnn)), with the exception that there is an additional grid of 18 x 18 nodes whose values are passed to the CNN layers of the architecture and decoded into the final output.
The first part of the graph (scenario graph), which coincides with _SNGNN_ represents the entities in the room and their relations, using a node per entity (room, humans, walls and objects). 
The walls are split into segments, creating a node for each of these segments.
A global _room_ node connects to every other node in the graph to facilitate the use of global information in the room using fewer layers.
The human-to-human and human-to-object interactions (if they exist) are represented as edges among the respective nodes.
The scenario graph can be seen on the top half of **Fig. 2**.

The grid is a lattice of interconnected nodes, structured to represent the area of the room surrounding the robot by associating them to 2D coordinates.
The number of nodes of this grid and the area they cover are hyperparameters that can be tuned to reach a trade-off between performance, computation time, and area coverage.
The **$x$**, **$y$** coordinates of a grid node in row **$i$** and column **$j$** from the robot's perspective are computed as in the following equation, where **$N$** is the width and height of the lattice and **$W$** is the side of the squared area covered by the grid.

$$ x = \frac{W \; (\left \lfloor{(N-1)/2}\right \rfloor - i)}{N-1} $$

$$ y = \frac{W \; (j - \left \lfloor{(N-1)/2}\right \rfloor)}{N-1} $$


## Results visualization


## How to use


## Citation

To cite this work, use the following BibTex notation:

```bibtex
@InProceedings{danielGraph2D,
author="Rodriguez-Criado, Daniel
and Bachiller, Pilar
and Manso, Luis J.",
editor="Bramer, Max
and Ellis, Richard",
title="Generation of Human-Aware Navigation Maps Using Graph Neural Networks",
booktitle="Artificial Intelligence XXXVIII",
year="2021",
publisher="Springer International Publishing",
address="Cham",
pages="19--32",
isbn="978-3-030-91100-3"
}

```

Commit message:

Updates in the sngnn2d project, almost finished

src/content/docs/navigation/sngnn2d.mdx, after:

---
title: "Generation of human-aware navigation maps using graph neural networks"
description: "This projects consitis of the generation of disruption maps for Human-Aware Navigation (HAN) with robots using graph neural networks. This maps can be used for real-time HAN as demonstrated in the experiments."
cover: "@/images/projects/sngnn2d/results.png"
coverAlt: "Results of the maps gneerated from a SocNav1 scenario with SNGNN2D."
lastUpdated: 2021-12-06
sidebar:
  order: 2
  label: "SNGNN2D: Social Navigation with Graph Neural Networks 2D"
---

import Header from "@/components/starlight/ProjectHeader.astro";
import { Image } from "astro:assets";

<Header
	contributors={["Daniel Rodriguez-Criado", "Pilar Bachiller-Burgos", "Luis J. Manso"]}
	githubUrl="https://github.com/gnns4hri/sngnn2d"
	paperUrl="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.05180.pdf"
/>

This work builds on top of the project in [SNGNN](/navigation/sngnn) and exetends it to generate 2D disruption maps for Human-Aware Navigation (HAN) using graph neural networks.
While _SNGNN_ could only generate a single score for scneario, this new model (_SNGNN2D_) can yield a entire disruption map of the space around the robot that can be use for HAN.
It is worth noting that _SNGNN_ is also campable of generating these 2D maps by querying the model for every possible position of the robot in the scneario, generating 1 pixel value of the final map per position.
However, this process is too slow due to the large number of queries required to generate the full map.
Generating a map using this approach takes approximatelly **$37.55$** seconds while the SNGNN2D model can generate the full map in just **$0.045$** seconds using the same hardware.

Although, _SNGNN_ cannot efficiently generate 2D maps, we use this model too bootstrap a 2D dataset that can be used to train _SNGNN2D_ as ecpplained in [this section](#dataset-bootstrapping).
The following video shows the proccess to create the dataset, train the model, and generate the maps in a simulated scenario for HAN:

import coverVideo from "@/images/projects/sngnn2d/cover_video.webm";

<video controls width="100%">
	<source src={coverVideo} type="video/webm" />
</video>

Thus the main contributions of this work are two-fold:

<ol style="list-style-type: none;">
	<li>**a.)** A technique to bootstrap two-dimensional datasets from one dimensional Datasets. </li>
	<li>**b.)** SNGNN-2D, an architecture that combines Graph Neural Networks (GNN) and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to generate two dimensional cost maps based on the robot's knowledge. </li>
</ol>

After training, the resulting ML architecture is able to efficiently generate cost maps that can be used as a cost function for Human-Aware Navigation.
The experiments presented in the [published article](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.05180.pdf) provide the accuracy of the model, time efficiency and statistical information of the trajectories used by the robot when using _SNGNN2D_ and a reference Gaussian Mixture Model-based (GMM) algorithm. The software to bootstrap the two-dimensional dataset and _SNGNN2D_ has been released as [open-source in a public repository](https://github.com/gnns4hri/sngnn2d), with all the data required to replicate the experiments.

## Dataset bootstrapping

The acquisition of two-dimensional cost or _disruption_ maps to create datasets for learning purposes generates a number of challenges.
First, asking people contributing to the datasets to provide a cost map instead of a single score per scenario would be more time-consuming.
Another factor to consider is the precision of the answer is being dependent on the subjects' capability to represent their preferences graphically.
Their inclination and motivation to stay engaged in the task would also be a challenge.

import bootstrappingImg from "@/images/projects/sngnn2d/bootstrapping.png";

<Image class="centered" src={bootstrappingImg} alt="Visualization of the dataset bootstrapping process" />
<p class="caption">**Fig 1.** _The process used to bootstrap the two-dimensional dataset. The expected 2D outputs are generated performing multiple queries to SNGNN, shifting the scenario around the robot._</p>

A dataset containing scalars as output data cannot directly be used to train a model which provides a two-dimensional output, so the approach followed in this case is to use a model which provides single value estimations ([SNGNN](/navigation/sngnn)) and sample its output shifting the robot's position, bootstrapping this way a two-dimensional dataset.
The process of sampling is depicted in *Fig. 1* and in more detail in the cover video.
For each scenario in the bootstrapped dataset a matrix of **$73 \times 73$** samples is generated.
A total of **$37,131$** scenarios were randomly generated following the same strategy of [SocNav1](/navigation/datasets/socnav1).
The dataset split for training, development and test is of **$31,191$**, **$2,970$** and **$2,970$** scenarios, respectively.


## Graphs creation

Considering that the input data is not presented in the form of a graph, its conversion to a graph-like structure is one of the most relevant steps if GNNs are to be used.
This process follows the same steps as ([SNGNN](/navigation/sngnn)), with the exception that there is an additional grid of **$18 \times 18$** nodes whose values are passed to the CNN layers of the architecture and decoded into the final output.
The first part of the graph (scenario graph), which coincides with _SNGNN_ represents the entities in the room and their relations, using a node per entity (room, humans, walls and objects). 
The walls are split into segments, creating a node for each of these segments.
A global _room_ node connects to every other node in the graph to facilitate the use of global information in the room using fewer layers.
The human-to-human and human-to-object interactions (if they exist) are represented as edges among the respective nodes.
The scenario graph can be seen on the top half of **Fig. 2**.

import graphImg from "@/images/projects/sngnn2d/graph.png";

<Image class="centered" src={graphImg} alt="Final graph used by SNGNN2D" />
<p class="caption">**Fig 2.** _Representation of the graph corresponding to a specific scene. On the left image, the top side shows the entity graph while the bottom side depicts the grid graph._</p>

The grid is a lattice of interconnected nodes, structured to represent the area of the room surrounding the robot by associating them to 2D coordinates.
The number of nodes of this grid and the area they cover are hyperparameters that can be tuned to reach a trade-off between performance, computation time, and area coverage.
The **$x$**, **$y$** coordinates of a grid node in row **$i$** and column **$j$** from the robot's perspective are computed as in the following equation, where **$N$** is the width and height of the lattice and **$W$** is the side of the squared area covered by the grid.

$$ x = \frac{W \; (\left \lfloor{(N-1)/2}\right \rfloor - i)}{N-1} $$

$$ y = \frac{W \; (j - \left \lfloor{(N-1)/2}\right \rfloor)}{N-1} $$


## How to use

Explained how the model works and its structure, this section will focus on the usage of the model.

### Load the model and the dataset

The first step to use the model is to download it alongside with the dataset.

### Train your own model

### Test the model

## Citation

To cite this work, use the following BibTex notation:

```bibtex
@InProceedings{danielGraph2D,
author="Rodriguez-Criado, Daniel
and Bachiller, Pilar
and Manso, Luis J.",
editor="Bramer, Max
and Ellis, Richard",
title="Generation of Human-Aware Navigation Maps Using Graph Neural Networks",
booktitle="Artificial Intelligence XXXVIII",
year="2021",
publisher="Springer International Publishing",
address="Cham",
pages="19--32",
isbn="978-3-030-91100-3"
}

```
